Welcome! In this video we are going to be creating pretty splash screens, like you see
here, allowing ourselves to progress between them as we have
previously. And we're also going to be creating a game over screen, which is very
much similar to the splash screen we saw before but with a different image.
So let's dive right in!
So our splash screen, at the moment, [Laughs] is a little bit of a joke!
I wouldn't really call it so much of a splash screen as an empty screen,
so what we want to do is actually add some UI that will
allow us to introduce the player to the game. So
fortunately, that is again very easy in Unity, all we have to do is right-click
in our Hierarchy, go to the UI, and
we want to select a Canvas, first of all. So that
is the basis of which we make all our UI. Now, yours may not
be centered, yours might look something more like this. To center it, just double-
click on the Canvas and that will get you there, and what you also want to do is make
sure you are in 2D mode. So you can just hit 2D on
your viewport, and that will flip you over there. And one more thing
is, we want to select this right-most tool here, which
is basically for rescaling 2D elements,
which is exactly what we need. So you can see it gives us these kind of handles.
OK so what we're going to need to do is add in an image
here, a background image, that is the first thing that will make the biggest
difference. So let's go looking for them! I'm going to
just Google for "basketball" images, but
I do suggest you're careful, because you need to make sure
you have rights. So if you were just to copy anything off of Google,
you wouldn't be able to distribute the game, it would be against copyright law, so make sure you
just hit this Search Tools button, and then, under Usage Rights,
select something that is Labeled For Reuse and that will allow you
to sell the game. If you're not going to sell the game, just share it, then just go for Labeled
for Noncommercial Reuse. And if you're going to
modify, you obviously need modification and so on, but this will basically
filter down, based on licenses that you can use. Now, you can
take your pick from the list of images, that shows up here.
I'm going to go with this one, I think that's fairly nice.
And this one comes from a website called Pixabay, which is quite common. You
may have to scroll down to find the image again but it's here. They
do a lot of good free public domain images. So I'm
going to download, not the original size. You can get the original size but
you need to sign up for it, I don't particularly want to. And then,
this is very easy, we can just drag that file into Unity, but first, I'm going to
Create a Folder for my images. So right-click, Create, Folder,
Images, and I'm going to just
drag over into that folder.
So it should import. There it is! Now, it's the one
you see. It's turned it into a square, which is a little bit annoying but
we will sort that out later.
And now what we want to do is right-click on our Canvas, because we want to create a
child of the Canvas. Go into UI,
and then, select the Raw Image option.
So that will allow us to create a raw image
texture, if we go to the Inspector and we drag our image
into it's Texture field. There you go, we're starting
to see the light. We have our image, but
it's a little bit annoying, because the scale isn't quite right.
So let's just go back to the website and I noticed that when
I hit Free Download there was the scale there, so it's
1280. Let me stick that in!
and then, 853.
So I've got the image size right!
Now, I just need to use the Scale Tool, and if you click and drag
on the center box, it does a proportionate scale. And I'm just going to scale the
whole thing, and I'm going to move this image to be centered,
which fortunately there are some snapping tools to help me out.
And I am going to just scale it so that it fills the whole screen.
Now, let's hit play and see what that looks like! OK, better but not
perfect, because we're still seeing this world around the edges, which we really don't
want to be seeing. Now, the way we fix that is by clicking on the
Canvas, then going into our
Canvas Scaler, and selecting Scale with Screen
Size. Now, you'll notice that changes our Canvas size, somewhat. We need to
adjust the size of our RawImage, this way.
So I'm going to click RawImage and just,
there we go, make sure it is big enough. I'll save my scene.
Now, let's hit play! OK, much better! Now
you know, I can even adjust the size of this window
to make sure that everything is going to fit on the screen.
I suggest you do the same thing, is try out for different screen
scale sizes, like so. It's all going to
look alright, whether you play it on an iPod or an iPhone
or on your computer and on different computer screens.
So your challenge, this lecture, is to create a game over
scene! So we've just created a menu screen, and I'd like you to use
all that knowledge and replicate it to create your own new scene.
So, as I said, create a scene, and then, put it last
in the build order, because that is the order in which we want to see these scenes.
And add a canvas with a background image, just like we've
done, just replicate those steps, and make it reachable
from the game. So I don't know how you're going to do that,
it depends. You can choose many different ways, but
perhaps using some input from the keyboard and some
components, perhaps, that we've already made, you'll be able to reach the game over
screen from the game. I'm not saying create a game over condition
but you could try that too if you like, but we'll be covering those in later lectures. So
let's pause the video and have a go!
OK, welcome back! Let's dive right into
doing this! So the first thing I'm going to
do is go into my _Scenes and right-click Create
and select Scene. This one is going to be
03_GameOver. Notice
I'm using Camel Case there, as well, starting with a capital G.
And then, what I want to do is go into this game, save
my menu scene. When I switch, you always have to make sure you're saving the scene.
And then, I'm going to create a UI Canvas.
I'm going to, while I'm here, set the scale
to be Scale With Screen Size. So I've done that
straight away. I'm going to right-click on my Canvas, I'm going to add
a Raw Image, and then, I might go and
pick out a different image from the list of those
basketball images. Let's see what might be a good one.
I think this one looks fairly good, just open that up!
OK, you've got a free download of that!
I need to Save Image As,
stick it in the Downloads, and
just drag it into the Assets.
So I'm going to drag it into my Images folder.
Done right! Now, I can take the Raw
Image and drag that image onto its Texture field,
and again, I'm going to need to get the resolution right, which is a bit of a pain.
But let's just do this one by
eye. So I can
select the UI Tool here,
so that is the fifth one along, and I can just
scale it until it's approximately right. I think we'll get away
with that. That's definitely more than that.
Let's make sure that this is vaguely spherical. That'll do the trick!
OK that's looking fairly OK.
And I'm just going to use the Scale Tool now to just scale
everything proportionally outwards, and
let's hit play and see what that scene looks like!
OK, yes much better, we can
quite clearly see everything is fitting in the screen.
I'm going to save that scene, and I said I need to
put it in the Build Order. So File, Build Settings, let's
add... You can hit either Add Open Scene or you can drag the scene in.
I'm going to hit Add Open Scene. It's automatically added it in third
place, in build order number 2. So that is good!
That's where we want it to be! Now, let's go into our _Scenes
folder and open up the game. So how are we
going to progress? Well I say we'll just create a
LevelManager in here, as well. So create a new GameObject, say Level
Manager.
And then, get this LevelManager script, that we already have written,
because scripts are shared between scenes, and we can just stick that on the Level
Manager, so it has a LevelManager script component. And as we know, the LevelManager
script does, in fact, wait for the Spacebar, and then, it progresses to the
next level. So if we hit play now...
OK, the lighting's gone a bit weird here, but if we hit
Spacebar, there we go we move on to our game over
scene! So in total, if we started
with our Menu screen, we should be able to now get all the way
through to all our scenes. From there, to our game, and
from our game, on to the game over screen! Perfect! A
challenge successfully completed! See you in the next video!